W-17350167-rtf-december-kt (#1373)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-fabric: modules/ROOT/pages/configure-ingress-http-resource.adoc

> = Configuring Ingress with HTTP Route Template Custom Resource In Runtime Fabric

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Configuring Ingress with HTTP Route Template Custom Resource in Runtime Fabric
```

> Configure ingress support for Mule apps on Anypoint Runtime Fabric platform through the HTTP route template custom resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure ingress support for Mule apps on the Anypoint Runtime Fabric platform using the HTTP route-template custom resource.
```

Reviewer: Either remove platform or add "the"

> == Benefits of Ingress Configuration with HTTP Route Template Custom Resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Benefits of Ingress Configuration with the HTTP Route-Template Custom Resource
```

> Current ingress support for Mule apps on the Runtime Fabric platform is confined to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/[Kubernetes ingress] resources, which restricts you from leveraging cloud vendor-native HTTP routing solutions, such as OpenShift Routes on OpenShift clusters, Istio or Service mesh. To address this behavior, Runtime Fabric supports a custom resource `httproutetemplates.rtf.mulesoft.com` template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Current ingress support for Mule apps on the Runtime Fabric platform is confined to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/[Kubernetes ingress] resources, which restrict you from using cloud vendor-native HTTP routing solutions, such as OpenShift Routes on OpenShift clusters, Istio, or Service Mesh. To address this limitation, Runtime Fabric supports a custom resource `httproutetemplates.rtf.mulesoft.com` template.
```

> Use the HTTP route template custom resource in Runtime Fabric to define and implement custom routing configurations to take advantage of compatibility with a range of ingress controllers and cloud-native routing mechanisms, including support for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the HTTP route-template custom resource in Runtime Fabric to define and implement custom routing configurations. With this approach, you can take advantage of compatibility with a range of ingress controllers and cloud-native routing mechanisms, including support for:
```

> * Wild card for Host based routing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Wildcard for host-based routing.
```

Reviewer: If you install the writer.ai browser extension, some of this stuff will be flagged...

Reviewer: This bullet is not parallel with the others.

> * Creation of `httproutetemplates.rtf.mulesoft.com` templates to map a set of application endpoints to a set of arbitrary Http routing resources for Path based routing.

Reviewer: HTTP or http?

"path-based"

> * Synchronization of the domain or hosts from the Http Route templates, with Anypoint control plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Synchronization of the domain or hosts from the HTTP route templates, with the Anypoint control plane.
```

> * Using parameter placeholders on `httproutetemplates.rtf.mulesoft.com` templates for additional extensibility.

Reviewer: Also not parallel.

Reviewer: Suggest using the generic "HTTP route templates" (instead of the code) for most mentions unless you're referring to a file or something you're manipulating.

> == HTTP Route Template Custom Resource Placeholders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== HTTP Route-Template Custom-Resource Placeholders
```

Reviewer: I think this is a compound adjective modifying the custom resource, hence the hyphen.

> Runtime Fabric exposes a list of placeholder properties that cluster administartors can use in their HTTP route template custom resource. These placeholders are evaluated and replaced with actual data by Runtime Fabric when rendering the deployment charts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Runtime Fabric reveals placeholder properties that cluster administrators can use in their HTTP route-template custom resource. These placeholders are evaluated and replaced with actual data by Runtime Fabric when rendering the deployment charts.
```

Reviewer: Stopping here. Please run this through vale/spell check and resubmit!

= Configuring Ingress with HTTP Route-Template Custom Resource in Runtime Fabric

Configure ingress support for Mule apps on the Anypoint Runtime Fabric platform using the HTTP route-template custom resource.

== Benefits of Ingress Configuration with the HTTP Route-Template Custom Resource

Current ingress support for Mule apps on the Runtime Fabric platform is confined to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/[Kubernetes ingress] resources, which restrict you from using cloud vendor-native HTTP routing solutions, such as OpenShift Routes on OpenShift clusters, Istio, or Service Mesh. To address this limitation, Runtime Fabric supports a custom resource `httproutetemplates.rtf.mulesoft.com` template.

Use the HTTP route-template custom resource in Runtime Fabric to define and implement custom routing configurations. With this approach, you can take advantage of compatibility with a range of ingress controllers and cloud-native routing mechanisms, including support for:

> * Wildcard for host-based routing.

Reviewer: The list items are still not parallel.

Also, if they're not complete sentences, don't include the .

* Creation of `httproutetemplates.rtf.mulesoft.com` templates to map a set of application endpoints to arbitrary HTTP routing resources for path-based routing..
* Synchronization of domains or hosts from the HTTP route templates with the Anypoint control plane.
* Using parameter placeholders in `httproutetemplates.rtf.mulesoft.com` templates for additional extensibility.

> == HTTP Route-Template Custom Resource Placeholders

Reviewer: I think Custom Resource should be hyphenated because it modifies Placeholders.

> Runtime Fabric reveals placeholder properties that cluster administrators can use in their HTTP route-template custom resource. These placeholders are evaluated and replaced with actual data by Runtime Fabric when rendering the deployment charts.

Reviewer: "reveals" is what writer suggested to me, but I wonder if that's correct. Maybe "provides" is a better word? Where do these placeholders come from? Are they part of RTF?

> As a cluster administrator, use these HTTP route-template placeholder properties in your CRD:

Reviewer: What is a CRD?

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Property| Description

> | `{{ .ResourceName }}`| Replaces with the Runtime Fabric generated unique routing.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand what "Replaces with..." means.

Consider moving that to the column heading since it's repeated in every description.

Also, these are not full sentences, so shouldn't have a period.

Suggest something like: 
Backend service name of the Mule app deployment

| `{{ .ApplicationName }}`| Replaces with the Mule app deployment name.
| `{{ .Namespace }}`| Replaces with the namespace of the Mule app deployment.
| `{{ .Service.Name }}`| Replaces with the backend service name of the Mule app deployment.
| `{{ .Service.PortName }}`| Replaces with the backend service port name of the Mule app deployment.
| `{{ .Service.Port }}`| Replaces with the backend service port number of the Mule app deployment.
| `{{ .Host }}`| Replaces with the host or domain value from the public endpoint of Mule  app deployment.
| `{{ .Path }}`| Replaces with the path value from the public endpoint of Mule app deployment.
| `{{ .OrganizationID }}`| Replaces with the organization ID of the Mule app deployment.
| `{{ .EnvironmentID }}`| Replaces with the environment ID of the Mule app deployment.
| `{{ .UniqueId }}`| Replaces with the unique ID.
|===

> == How HTTP Route-Template Custom Resource Works in Runtime Fabric

Reviewer: Missing a "the" here.

This diagram provides an overview of how to configure ingress using an HTTP route-template custom resource in Runtime Fabric:

image::ingress-http-diagram.png[HTTP route-template diagram overview]

> The `httproutetemplates` resource applies only to new Mule app deployments created after the template resource is set up. It does not affect existing deployments. If you redeploy a Mule app after creating or updating the `httproutetemplates`, the new template is applied.

Reviewer: doesn't

The `httproutetemplates` resource enables you to configure routes like these:

> * `baseEndpoints` +

Reviewer: Our style is to put the + on a new line - it creates more space.

> * `baseEndpoints` +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `baseEndpoints` 
+
```

> Describes a list of endpoints associated with the routing resources defined in the template. These endpoints are synchronized by Runtime Fabric with the Anypoint control plane. Application developers can select from a list of synchronized base endpoints during deployment and optionally customize the path and subdomain when applicable.

Reviewer: Is this correct: "Anypoint control plane"?

Reviewer: Can you get rid of "Describes a list of" and just start the sentence with "Endpoints"?

* `resources` +

> Describes a list of Kubernetes routing resource templates, which are created for every matching Mule app ingress endpoint.

Reviewer: See comment on line 49.

> To get the CRD of key elements that you can configure for the template, retrieve the Kubernetes specification by running this command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the CRD of key elements available to configure for the template, retrieve the Kubernetes specification by running this command:
```

----
kubectl get crd httproutetemplates.rtf.mulesoft.com -o yaml
----

== HTTP Route-Template Examples

> Review the following HTTP route templates examples for Kubernetes ingress, OpenShift routes, and Kubernetes Gateway API (HTTPRoute)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review these HTTP route-templates examples for Kubernetes ingress, OpenShift routes, and Kubernetes Gateway API (HTTPRoute).
```

=== Example for Kubernetes Ingress

> This is an HTTP route-template example resource for Kubernetes ingress:

Reviewer: Don't use "this" as the subject of the sentence. See Style Ref.

----
apiVersion: rtf.mulesoft.com/v1
kind: HTTPRouteTemplate
metadata:
  name: test-template-ingress
  namespace: rtf
spec:
  baseEndpoints:
    - https://*.example.com
    - https://example.internal.com
  resources:
    - |
      apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
      kind: Ingress
      metadata:
        name: {{ .ResourceName }}
        namespace: {{ .Namespace }}
        labels:
        annotations:
      spec:
       ingressClassName: nginx 
       rules:
       - host: {{ .Host }} 
         http:
            paths: 
            - pathType: Prefix
              path: {{ .Path }}
              backend: 
                service:
                  name: {{ .Service.Name }}
                  port:
                    name: {{ .Service.PortName }}
              tls:
              - hosts:
                - {{ .Host }}
                secretName: tls-ingress
----

> Note the following about the example:

Reviewer: Why not use callouts here and avoid "the following"?

[calloutlist]

> * The `baseEndpoints` placeholder defines the list of hosts or domains used for mapping the public endpoints configured on the Mule app deployment.

Reviewer: If you use a calloutlist, you don't need to reiterate the code elements - just include the number on the line in the code and match it to the number in the calloutlist. 

See: https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/Formatting+with+Asciidoc#FormattingwithAsciidoc-AddCalloutstoCodeBlocks

* The `resources` placeholder defines one or more Kubernetes routing resources, such as an Ingress resource.

> * The `{ .ResourceName }` placeholder is replaced with the Runtime Fabric generated unique routing resource name. Use this placeholder to ensure the Kubernetes resource name meets the uniqueness constraint. If you don’t use this placeholder, ensure the resource name is unique.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `{ .ResourceName }` placeholder is replaced with the Runtime Fabric-generated unique routing resource name. Use this placeholder to make sure the Kubernetes resource name meets the uniqueness constraint. If you don’t use this placeholder, make sure the resource name is unique.
```

* The `{ .Host }` placeholder is replaced with the host or domain from the Mule app's public URL.
* The `{ .Path }` placeholder is replaced with the path from the Mule app's public URL. 

=== Example for OpenShift Routes

> This is a HTTP route-template example resource for OpenShift routes:

Reviewer: Don't use "this" as the subject of the sentence.

This example shows an HTTP....

Reviewer: "an HTTP"

----
apiVersion: rtf.mulesoft.com/v1
kind: HTTPRouteTemplate
metadata:
  name: test-template-routes
  namespace: rtf
spec:
  baseEndpoints:
    - https://demo.example.com
  resources:
    - |
apiVersion: v1
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: {{ .ResourceName }}
  namespace: {{ .Namespace }}
spec:
  host: {{ .Host }}
  path: {{ .Path }}
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: {{ .Service.Name }}
  tls:
    termination: edge
    key: |-
      -----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
      [...]
      -----END PRIVATE KEY-----
    certificate: |-              
      -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
      [...]
      -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    caCertificate: |-
      -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
      [...]
      -----END CERTIFICATE-----

----

=== Example for Kubernetes Gateway API

> This is a HTTP route-template resource for Kubernetes Gateway API (HTTPRoute):

Reviewer: See comment on line 116

Reviewer: Should "HTTPRoute" be in mono font?

----
apiVersion: rtf.mulesoft.com/v1
kind: HttpRouteTemplate
metadata:
  name: k8s-gateway-api-cr
  namespace: rtf
spec:
  baseEndpoints:
    - https://demo.example.com
  resources: |-
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: HTTPRoute
metadata:
  name: {{ .ResourceName }}
  namespace: {{ .Namespace }}
spec:
  parentRefs:
  - kind: Gateway
    name: cluster-gateway
  hostnames:
  - {{ .Host }}
  rules:
  - matches:
    - path:
        type: PathPrefix
        value: {{ .Path }}
    backendRefs:
    - name: {{ .Service.Name }}
      port: {{ .Service.Port }}

----

[NOTE]

> You are responsible for configuring the Kubernetes Gateway resources and allowing HTTP routes from the route's namespace to attach.

Reviewer: to attach to what?

== Using TLS in the HTTP Route-Template Custom Resource

> To use TLS in the routing resources in HTTP route-template, create a TLS secret in the Runtime Fabric namespace. For details, refer to the https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#tls[Kubernetes TLS] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use TLS in the routing resources in an HTTP route template, create a TLS secret in the Runtime Fabric namespace. For details, refer to the https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#tls[Kubernetes TLS] documentation.
```

Reviewer: In this case, route template is a noun, not a compound adjective.

> Use the `rtf.mulesoft.com/synchronized: "true"` label on the TLS secret to configure the Runtime Fabric to manage the secrets lifecycle (Create, Update, and Delete) across all application namespaces, for example:

Reviewer: Flip around...
To configure...., use

> Use the `rtf.mulesoft.com/synchronized: "true"` label on the TLS secret to configure the Runtime Fabric to manage the secrets lifecycle (Create, Update, and Delete) across all application namespaces, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `rtf.mulesoft.com/synchronized: "true"` label on the TLS secret to configure the Runtime Fabric to manage the secrets lifecycle (Create, Update, and Delete) across all application namespaces. For example:
```

----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: testsecret-tls
  namespace: <agent-namespace>
  labels:
    rtf.mulesoft.com/synchronized: "true"
data:
  tls.crt: base64 encoded cert
  tls.key: base64 encoded key
type: kubernetes.io/tls

----

> While the usage of this label is highly recommended for seamless management of secrets, if you don’t add this label, you must manually update the secret in each namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using this label is highly recommended for secrets management. If you don’t add this label, you must manually update the secret in each namespace.
```

== Modify an Existing HTTP Route-Template CRD

> You can modify existing `httproutetemplates` templates even if they were already used for application deployments. Note that already created HTTP routing resources based on this template are not updated if you modify the template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can modify existing `httproutetemplates` templates even if they are used for application deployments. Note that previously created HTTP routing resources based on this template aren’t updated if you modify the template.
```

= Configuring Ingress with HTTP Route-Template Custom Resource in Runtime Fabric

Configure ingress support for Mule apps on the Anypoint Runtime Fabric platform using the HTTP route-template custom resource.

== Benefits of Ingress Configuration with the HTTP Route-Template Custom Resource

Current ingress support for Mule apps on the Runtime Fabric platform is confined to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/[Kubernetes ingress] resources, which restrict you from using cloud vendor-native HTTP routing solutions, such as OpenShift Routes on OpenShift clusters, Istio, or Service Mesh. To address this limitation, Runtime Fabric supports a custom resource `httproutetemplates.rtf.mulesoft.com` template.

Use the HTTP route-template custom resource in Runtime Fabric to define and implement custom routing configurations. With this approach, you can take advantage of compatibility with a range of ingress controllers and cloud-native routing mechanisms, including support for:

* Wildcard for host-based routing

> * Creation of `httproutetemplates.rtf.mulesoft.com` templates to map a set of application endpoints to arbitrary HTTP routing resources for path-based routing

Reviewer 2: The context is already set above so i would just keep it :
`Map a set of application endpoints to arbitrary HTTP routing resources for path-based routing`

* Synchronization of domains or hosts from the HTTP route templates with the Anypoint control plane
* Using parameter placeholders in `httproutetemplates.rtf.mulesoft.com` templates for additional extensibility

== HTTP Route-Template Custom-Resource Placeholders

Runtime Fabric provides placeholder properties that cluster administrators can use in their HTTP route-template custom resource. These placeholders are evaluated and replaced with actual data by Runtime Fabric when rendering the deployment charts.

> As a cluster administrator, use these HTTP route-template placeholder properties in your CRD (custom resource definition):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a cluster administrator, use these HTTP route-template placeholder properties in your CR (custom resource):
```

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Property| Description

> | `{{ .ResourceName }}`| Runtime Fabric generated unique routing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `{{ .ResourceName }}`| Runtime Fabric generated unique routing resource name.
```

| `{{ .ApplicationName }}`| Mule app deployment name
| `{{ .Namespace }}`| Namespace of the Mule app deployment
| `{{ .Service.Name }}`| Backend service name of the Mule app deployment
| `{{ .Service.PortName }}`| Backend service port name of the Mule app deployment
| `{{ .Service.Port }}`| Backend service port number of the Mule app deployment
| `{{ .Host }}`| Host or domain value from the public endpoint of Mule  app deployment
| `{{ .Path }}`| Path value from the public endpoint of Mule app deployment
| `{{ .OrganizationID }}`| Organization ID of the Mule app deployment
| `{{ .EnvironmentID }}`| Environment ID of the Mule app deployment

> | `{{ .UniqueId }}`| Unique ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `{{ .UniqueId }}`| Unique ID placeholder to create a unique application URL.
```

= Configuring Ingress with HTTP Route-Template Custom Resource in Runtime Fabric

Configure ingress support for Mule apps on the Anypoint Runtime Fabric platform using the HTTP route-template custom resource.

== Benefits of Ingress Configuration with the HTTP Route-Template Custom Resource

> Current ingress support for Mule apps on the Runtime Fabric platform is confined to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/[Kubernetes ingress] resources, which restrict you from using cloud vendor-native HTTP routing solutions, such as OpenShift Routes on OpenShift clusters, Istio, or Service Mesh. To address this limitation, Runtime Fabric supports a custom resource `httproutetemplates.rtf.mulesoft.com` template.

Reviewer 3: "restrict you" -> "restricts usage to"

Reviewer 3: I would also change "Service Mesh" (which isn't a product like the others in the list) to "Kubernetes Gateway API"

Use the HTTP route-template custom resource in Runtime Fabric to define and implement custom routing configurations. With this approach, you can take advantage of compatibility with a range of ingress controllers and cloud-native routing mechanisms, including support for:

> * Wildcard for host-based routing

Reviewer 3: I would turn this into a list of customer-facing features - eg

- Subdomain based routing
- Path based routing
- Header based routing
- Rate limiting

The way it is currently phrased probably is not understandable by customers

* Map a set of application endpoints to arbitrary HTTP routing resources for path-based routing
* Synchronization of domains or hosts from the HTTP route templates with the Anypoint control plane
* Using parameter placeholders in `httproutetemplates.rtf.mulesoft.com` templates for additional extensibility

== HTTP Route-Template Custom-Resource Placeholders

> Runtime Fabric provides placeholder properties that cluster administrators can use in their HTTP route-template custom resource. These placeholders are evaluated and replaced with actual data by Runtime Fabric when rendering the deployment charts.

Reviewer 3: > These placeholders are evaluated and replaced with actual data by Runtime Fabric when rendering the deployment charts.

How about "Placeholder properties are replaced with real values during application deployment" ?

> As a cluster administrator, use these HTTP route-template placeholder properties in your CR (custom resource):

Reviewer 3: > As a cluster administrator, use these HTTP route-template placeholder properties in your CR (custom resource):

"The following property placeholders are available:"

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Property| Description

> | `{{ .ResourceName }}`| Runtime Fabric generated unique routing resource name

Reviewer 3: As a customer, how should I know whether to use ResourceName or ApplicationName? 

Recommend we document one or the other, or make it very clear when to use each one

> | `{{ .ApplicationName }}`| Mule app deployment name

Reviewer 3: I would replace all references to "Mule app" with just "application". This documentation will also be valid for customers deploying Flex Gateways for example.

| `{{ .Namespace }}`| Namespace of the Mule app deployment
| `{{ .Service.Name }}`| Backend service name of the Mule app deployment
| `{{ .Service.PortName }}`| Backend service port name of the Mule app deployment
| `{{ .Service.Port }}`| Backend service port number of the Mule app deployment

> | `{{ .Host }}`| Host or domain value from the public endpoint of Mule  app deployment

Reviewer 3: "host" and "domain" are the same thing. I would pick one - suggest "host" to avoid confusion. Perhaps it would be helpful for each of these properties to include an example value assuming an application called "myapp" with an endpoint "https://myapp.example.com/api/v1"

| `{{ .Path }}`| Path value from the public endpoint of Mule app deployment
| `{{ .OrganizationID }}`| Organization ID of the Mule app deployment
| `{{ .EnvironmentID }}`| Environment ID of the Mule app deployment

> | `{{ .UniqueId }}`| Unique ID placeholder to create a unique application URL.

Reviewer 3: Requires some explanation of why this is useful so customers can choose whether they need to use it or not

|===

== How the HTTP Route-Template Custom Resource Works in Runtime Fabric

This diagram provides an overview of how to configure ingress using an HTTP route-template custom resource in Runtime Fabric:

image::ingress-http-diagram.png[HTTP route-template diagram overview]

> The `httproutetemplates` resource applies only to new Mule app deployments created after the template resource is set up. It doesn't affect existing deployments. If you redeploy a Mule app after creating or updating the `httproutetemplates`, the new template is applied.

Reviewer 3: > It doesn't affect existing deployments. If you redeploy...
Existing deployments are unaffected. After applying an `httproutetemplate`, it is applied for all subsequent application deployments.

(I'm trying to avoid the word "you" - it is not normally seen in documentation like this IMO)

The `httproutetemplates` resource enables you to configure routes like these:

* `baseEndpoints` 
+

> Endpoints associated with the routing resources defined in the template. These endpoints are synchronized by Runtime Fabric with the Anypoint control plane. Application developers can select from a list of synchronized base endpoints during deployment and optionally customize the path and subdomain when applicable.

Reviewer 3: > can select from a list of synchronized base endpoints
"select one or more endpoints"

* `resources` +

> Kubernetes routing resource templates, which are created for every matching Mule app ingress endpoint.

Reviewer 3: how about something more concrete - "A list of strings, each declaring a Kubernetes resource"?

To get the CRD of key elements available to configure for the template, retrieve the Kubernetes specification by running this command:

----
kubectl get crd httproutetemplates.rtf.mulesoft.com -o yaml
----

== HTTP Route-Template Examples

Review these HTTP route-templates examples for Kubernetes ingress, OpenShift routes, and Kubernetes Gateway API (HTTPRoute).

=== Example for Kubernetes Ingress
This example shows an HTTP route-template resource for Kubernetes ingress:

----

> apiVersion: rtf.mulesoft.com/v1

Reviewer 3: Maybe it would be useful to show the resulting UI that application developers see after this template is applied? So customers can see the effect of adding https://*.example.com or https://example.internal.com

kind: HTTPRouteTemplate
metadata:

>   name: test-template-ingress

Reviewer 3: instead of `test` how about `example`

  namespace: rtf
spec:
  baseEndpoints:
    - https://*.example.com

>     - https://example.internal.com

Reviewer 3: how about `https://*.example.com` and `https://example.com` unless the example.internal is meaningful somehow. Recommend keeping these as simple as possible

  resources:
    - |
      apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
      kind: Ingress
      metadata:
        name: {{ .ResourceName }}
        namespace: {{ .Namespace }}
        labels:
        annotations:
      spec:

>        ingressClassName: nginx 

Reviewer 3: recommend remove this line, not required

       tls:
       - hosts:
         - {{ .Host }}
         secretName: testsecret-tls
       rules:
       - host: {{ .Host }} 
         http:
            paths: 
            - pathType: Prefix
              path: {{ .Path }}
              backend: 
                service:
                  name: {{ .Service.Name }}
                  port:
                    name: {{ .Service.PortName }}
----

[calloutlist]

.. Hosts or domains used for mapping the public endpoints configured on the Mule app deployment.
.. One or more Kubernetes routing resources, such as an Ingress resource.

> .. The Runtime Fabric-generated unique routing resource name. Use this placeholder to make sure the Kubernetes resource name meets the uniqueness constraint. If you don’t use this placeholder, make sure the resource name is unique.

Reviewer 3: > name meets the uniqueness constraint
what is the uniqueness constraint? We haven't defined what that is

.. Host or domain from the Mule app's public URL.
.. Path from the Mule app's public URL. 

=== Example for OpenShift Routes
This example shows an HTTP route-template resource for OpenShift routes:

----
apiVersion: rtf.mulesoft.com/v1
kind: HTTPRouteTemplate
metadata:

>   name: test-template-routes

Reviewer 3: `example-template-openshiftroute`

  namespace: rtf
spec:
  baseEndpoints:

>     - https://demo.example.com

Reviewer 3: how about just https://example.com - keep it simple

  resources:
    - |
apiVersion: v1
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: {{ .ResourceName }}
  namespace: {{ .Namespace }}
spec:
  host: {{ .Host }}
  path: {{ .Path }}
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: {{ .Service.Name }}
  tls:
    termination: edge
    key: |-
      -----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
      [...]
      -----END PRIVATE KEY-----
    certificate: |-              
      -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
      [...]
      -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    caCertificate: |-
      -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
      [...]
      -----END CERTIFICATE-----

----

=== Example for Kubernetes Gateway API

This example shows an HTTP route-template resource for Kubernetes Gateway API (HTTPRoute):

----
apiVersion: rtf.mulesoft.com/v1
kind: HttpRouteTemplate
metadata:

>   name: k8s-gateway-api-cr

Reviewer 3: `example-template-gateway`

  namespace: rtf
spec:
  baseEndpoints:
    - https://demo.example.com
  resources: |-
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: HTTPRoute
metadata:
  name: {{ .ResourceName }}
  namespace: {{ .Namespace }}
spec:
  parentRefs:
  - kind: Gateway
    name: cluster-gateway
  hostnames:
  - {{ .Host }}
  rules:
  - matches:
    - path:
        type: PathPrefix
        value: {{ .Path }}
    backendRefs:
    - name: {{ .Service.Name }}
      port: {{ .Service.Port }}

----

[NOTE]

> You are responsible for the configuration of the Kuberneates Gateway resources and allowing HTTP Routes from the route's namespace to be attached.

Reviewer 3: "Kuberneates"

Reviewer 3: "HTTP Routes" -> "HTTPRoutes". Can we provide a link to how to allow routes namespace to be attached?

== Using TLS in the HTTP Route-Template Custom Resource

> To use TLS in the routing resources in an HTTP route template, create a TLS secret in the Runtime Fabric namespace. For details, refer to the https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#tls[Kubernetes TLS] documentation.

Reviewer 3: > create a TLS secret
"you may need to create a TLS secret..." 

This is not required, depends on the routing resource the customer is using, right?

> To configure the Runtime Fabric to manage the secrets lifecycle (Create, Update, and Delete) across all application namespace, use the `rtf.mulesoft.com/synchronized: "true"` label on the TLS secret. For example:

Reviewer 3: lowercase create, update, delete

----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: testsecret-tls

>   namespace: <agent-namespace>

Reviewer 3: `namespace: rtf`. We haven't talked about `<agent-namespace>` anywhere else on this page

  labels:
    rtf.mulesoft.com/synchronized: "true"
data:
  tls.crt: base64 encoded cert
  tls.key: base64 encoded key
type: kubernetes.io/tls

----

Using this label is highly recommended for secrets management. If you don’t add this label, you must manually update the secret in each namespace.

== Modify an Existing HTTP Route-Template CRD

> You can modify existing `httproutetemplates` templates even if they are used for application deployments. Note that previously created HTTP routing resources based on this template aren’t updated if you modify the template.

Reviewer 3: > You can modify existing `httproutetemplates` templates even if they are used for application deployments.

"You can modify existing `httproutetemplates` templates at any time"

The word "even" sounds strange here - of course a template is used for application deployments, what other purpose does it have :P

Reviewer 3: > aren’t updated if you modify the template.

"aren't updated automatically"

> To update existing HTTP routing resources with the template changes, perform a redeployment of the Mule app from the Anypoint control plane. For example, if you update the base domain, which requires changing the endpoint for the ingress template, remove the old endpoint and add the new one as part of the application redeployment.

Reviewer 3: > with the template changes

after changing the template

Reviewer 3: What happens if you do not remove the old endpoint?

Also, this scenario I would put as a note not an example - its sort of the most complicated case. A simpler example might be to add a new annotation or label to the template, which only requires the app to be redeployed without changing it

== Frequently Asked Questions

*Does Runtime Fabric support the existing ingress templates?*

> Yes, Runtime Fabric supports both old and new templates. However, use the new Custom Route templates to configure the ingress for your Mule application deployments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yes, Runtime Fabric supports both old and new templates. However, its highly recommended to use the new HTTP Route templates to configure the ingress for your Mule application deployments.
```

Reviewer 3: How about just "recommended". ?
"Highly recommended" we should reserve for something critical like updating to a new version to fix a vulnerability or bug. 

In this case, if customers want to continue using their Ingress template, its fine

> *What happens if there is a collision between an ingress template and an HTTP Route CR?*

Reviewer 3: define "collision"

The new HTTP Route CR takes precedence, and the old ingress is used as a fallback.

> *What happens if there is a BaseEndpoint or URL collision between two HTTP Route CRs?*

Reviewer 3: Again, I don't think this will be understandable by customers. Recommend we explain in more depth and/or provide an example

> The HTTP Route CR with the name that comes first alphabetically is used for rendering.

Reviewer 3: > for rendering

This is a new term not used on this page. We've previously said "applied". 

"The HTTP Route CR with the name that comes first alphabetically is applied"

*What are some placeholder usage guidelines?*

> Placeholders are not mandatory, but use them to make the HTTP Route template more generic. Especially if your deployment has multiple endpoints, use the placeholder `{ .ResourceName }` to make sure unique names for the HTTP Route resources being created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Placeholders are not mandatory, but use them to make the HTTP Route template more generic. Especially if your deployment has multiple endpoints, use the placeholder `{ .ResourceName }` to make sure unique names for the HTTP Route resources are being created by the RTF software.
```

> Placeholders are not mandatory, but use them to make the HTTP Route template more generic. Especially if your deployment has multiple endpoints, use the placeholder `{ .ResourceName }` to make sure unique names for the HTTP Route resources being created.

Reviewer 3: I think we should recommend use of placeholders for the resource name, host and path. Anything other than that is optional, but if those aren't used, the feature doesn't really work.
